Bond Yield Calculator 0.0.1

Overview

The Bond Yield Calculator is a Python-based application that helps you calculate the yield of bonds, taking into account:

-Purchase and selling dates.
-Coupon rates.
-Purchase and selling prices.
-Holding periods.

This tool is designed for investors and financial analysts who want to analyze bond profitability quickly and efficiently.

Key Features
-Ease of Use: A simple command-line interface (CLI) that guides the user through data entry.
-Detailed Calculations: Computes coupon income, price difference income, and total yield.
-Customizable Output: Results can be exported to an Excel file.
-Error Handling: Includes robust error checks for user inputs.

Requirements
The application requires Python 3.12 or higher and the following Python libraries:
openpyxl (for creating Excel files)

To install the dependencies, run:
pip install -r requirements.txt
Installation and Setup
1. Clone or Download the Repository
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/bond-yield-calculator.git
2. Navigate to the Project Directory
cd bond-yield-calculator
3. Install Dependencies

Ensure you are in a virtual environment, then run:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Usage
Running the Calculator
Open a terminal or command prompt.
Run the following command:
python bond_calculator_0.0.1.py
Follow the on-screen instructions to input:
Purchase date.
Selling date.
Purchase amount.
Purchase and selling prices (as percentages of face value).

Coupon rate.
Once all inputs are provided, the application displays results such as total income, yield percentage, and holding period.
Exporting Results
At the end of the calculation, you can choose to export the results to an Excel file.
If no path is provided, the file is saved to your desktop.

Error Handling
If an error occurs during input or execution, the application logs it to an error_log.txt file in the same directory. Check this file for troubleshooting.

Distribution
To create an executable for Windows or macOS:

Install PyInstaller:
pip install pyinstaller

Package the application:
pyinstaller --onefile --noconsole bond_calculator.py
The executable will be located in the dist folder.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Contributing
Fork the repository.

Create your feature branch:
git checkout -b feature/YourFeature

Commit your changes:
git commit -m 'Add YourFeature'

Push to the branch:
git push origin feature/YourFeature
Open a pull request.

Contact
For further inquiries, please contact:

Contacts: https://t.me/kunigunda_production

GitHub Issues: https://github.com/your-repo/bond-yield-calculator/issues